Data assumptions NVE
=====================

Area in the starting year of the model 
--------------------------------------
Data for the building area used in this model was prepared by Prognsesenteret in 2022. This data describes the building
stock in 2020 in Norway, distributed by building categories and age. The area is grouped into age groups that correspond
to the periods during which the various building codes (TEK) have been in effect. The age is suitable for use with the
age-specific rates for small measures, renovation, and demolition.

inputfile: 'area'

Demolition of area 
------------------
The rates for demolition in the dataset is based on .........

*NOTE! The current data on demolition and building of new area differs from available statistics. 
Changes in building stock area and energy consumption should therefore be used with caution. 
An updated and improved dataset will be published along with the next version of the model.*

inputfile: 's-curve'

Population forecast
-------------------

The population forecast in the dataset is the SSB 

HVILKEN AV FRAMSKRIVINGENE BRUKER VI? 

inputfile: 'population forecast'

New dwellings in residential area
---------------------------------

The number of new dwellings 

Average household size in the dataset is based on .........

inputfile: 'new_buildings_residential'


Area per person in non- residential buildings
------------------------------------------------------
For non-residential buildings, NVE has assumed that the area of a building type (e.g. office buildings) distributed by the
number of inhabitants in Norway (m²/person) will remain constant going forward. This assumption, along with the
calculated demolition, leads to new construction that will vary from year to year and between building categories.

The new construction rates for all building categories are directly linked to `SSB's population projections <https://www.ssb.no/befolkning/befolkningsframskrivinger/statistikk/nasjonale-befolkningsframskrivinger>`_,
and this has a significant impact on the result. It is assumed that the area distributed by the number of inhabitants in Norway (m²/person)
for each categories of non-residential buildings will remain constant throughout the period. For example, in 2024 
it is calculated that there are 5.8 m² of office area per person in Norway, and 1.3 m² of nursing home per person. These 
numbers are assumed to be constant during the forecast period, so the area will grow according to population change.

Thus, no account is taken of upcoming structural changes. We know that the aging population will impact us during the
forecast period. This might result in a different rate of new construction for nursing homes. However, since it is not
possible to say with certainty that this change will occur, when it will occur, and what the change will be, it is not
considered in this model. Other structural changes that can be imagined include urbanization and what it might entail
in terms of increased use of cafes, restaurants, theatres and so on. This is also not taken into account in the forecast.
The assumptions can easily be changed in the input files.

Regarding residences, urbanization is included in the assumption that the proportion of households living in houses will
decrease and the proportion living in apartments will increase. The assumed development in the number of people per
household is crucial. Until now, we have seen a decrease in the number of people per household, and this is assumed
to continue. However, we know that more and more families are choosing to have three or more children, and that divorce
rates are flattening out. Together with increased immigration from non-Western countries, where there is a stronger
tradition of having more children, this can impact household sizes going forward and help dampen the development.